We are happy to welcome you
to JW Broadcasting® for June 2024!
On March 9, 2024,
students from around the world
were delighted to graduate
from the 155th class of Gilead.
The students came from 5 continents,
represented more than 20 countries,
and spoke over 35 languages.
What parting encouragement
did members of the Governing Body,
the Gilead instructors,
and others give to the graduates?
What intriguing talk themes were developed?
Which countries were featured
in the latest edition of The Inside Story?
Let’s find out.
Enjoy Part 1!
Well, you seem excited.
And you should be.
And we’re happy for you.
The graduation program today
will benefit every listener,
but even so, please know that this program
has been prepared with your class in mind.
When the day is over, you’ll look back
and recall a program that honored Jehovah
and that confirmed his love for you
as well as our love for you.
During the past five months
of your schooling,
you were asked to draw out
important Bible principles
from many different accounts, true?
And so many of those accounts
focused on servants of God who with his help,
well, succeeded in doing his will.
And you no doubt agree more than ever before
with what the apostle Paul wrote
at Philippians 4:13, where he said:
“For all things I have the strength
through the one who gives me power.”
And you know who that “one” is—Jehovah.
And he provides that power for us
by means of his Son.
And he gave you the power
to succeed in this school, and you did.
And that’s a blessing you must never forget.
He helped you, and he will always help you.
For example, in the future
when you face a task or challenge
that seems very large, very daunting,
you can remember
how he helped you at this time.
Keep in mind Scriptural examples like David.
From his youth, David remembered his need
for Jehovah’s help, didn’t he?
At Psalm 71:5, 17, he said:
“For you are my hope,
O Sovereign Lord Jehovah;
I have trusted in you since my youth.”
“You have taught me from my youth,
and until now I keep declaring
your wonderful works.”
Well, isn’t that how you feel as Jehovah
has helped you along through the years
and now as he has helped you
through this schooling?
And you’re at the point of graduation.
And what a thrilling day it is for you
—one that you will never forget!
So like David—he had the gratitude
to remember Jehovah’s help; so do we.
David had the faith to trust
in Jehovah’s help, and so do we.
And we see those good qualities in you,
and we love you for it.
That’s why you’re confident to face
whatever things are ahead of you as well.
So use your Gilead training
in the branches where you will serve.
Jehovah will love you for it.
The dear brothers and sisters
will absolutely love you for it.
So now we’re going to enjoy
a series of encouraging talks
that for all of us, as mentioned earlier,
will strengthen our faith,
build up our trust in God,
and highlight the wonderful purpose
(his wonderful purpose) that we support.
So first of all in the program,
let’s give our attention
to Brother Jonathan Smith
—he serves as a helper
to the Service Committee—
who will discuss the theme
“What Do I Need To Do?”
‘What do I need to do?’
Have you ever asked yourself
that question?
Well, if you’re like me,
you ask yourself
that question every day,
sometimes several times a day.
‘What do I need to do next?’
But there’s a little bit more
to that question,
and maybe you
haven’t asked yourself this in a while,
‘What do I need to do
to inherit everlasting life?’
And maybe that’s a question you asked
when you were first studying the Bible,
and rightly so.
Or maybe during your course
of your Gilead training,
you asked yourself
that question a number of times.
Well, in the Bible, there were two men
who asked Jesus that same exact question.
Both of them asked Jesus the question
in the last six months
of Jesus’ earthly ministry.
Though it was the same question,
the answers were different.
Let’s look at the first one
at Luke 10:25:
“Now look! a man versed in the Law
stood up to test him and said:
“‘Teacher, what do I need to do
to inherit everlasting life?’”
Well, Jesus very astutely understands
that this man is already versed in the Law.
He probably already has an idea,
but it seems his motive
may be more to test Jesus
than get an answer.
So, what does Jesus do?
Jesus lets him answer his own question
in verse 26: “What is written in the Law?
How do you read?”
In verse 27, the man gives
an amazing answer.
In one sentence,
this man sums up
the entire Mosaic Law.
He does it exactly the same way
that Jesus had done so
on two different occasions.
Well, Jesus is no doubt impressed.
He said to him in verse 28:
“You answered correctly;
keep doing this and you will get life.”
There are good lessons here for us:
When we’re talking with people
about the Bible in our ministry,
sometimes we may detect
they have a little knowledge.
Flip the question back to them,
“What do you think?”
or better yet, “What do you read?”
Another thing we can do is found in verse 28.
Commend a person
if they give a correct response.
Let them know that you think
everlasting life is within their reach.
But this man has another motive surface now.
He moves from testing Jesus
to wanting to prove himself righteous.
In verse 29, he says:
“Who really is my neighbor?”
Now, being Jewish and versed in the Law,
he’s already got an idea
on this one too, doesn’t he?
He’s probably thinking,
‘Is Jesus going to tell me
what I want to hear
‘—that my neighbors are my Jewish friends,
perhaps in my village,
especially those who follow the Law?’
Well, if so, that question
would be a little limiting—wouldn’t it?
“Who really is my neighbor?”
isn’t really the best question.
So how does Jesus
get around this motive that he’s got
of proving himself righteous
and yet correct his viewpoint on a neighbor?
Well, as you know, there’s a beautiful
parable here of the neighborly Samaritan,
where Jesus describes
a situation here in verses 30, 31, 32.
A man is going down from Jerusalem
to Jericho and falls victim to robbers.
They strip him, beat him,
and leave him half-dead.
But by coincidence,
a priest goes down that road
but passes by on the opposite side.
The same thing happens with a Levite.
He passes by on the opposite side.
These are men
who have responsible positions
in God’s organization.
How callous!
How insensitive!
There’s a good lesson here for us.
We may have responsible assignments
in Jehovah’s organization.
Never allow that to cause us
to become callous
to another person’s needs,
even putting our downtime, so to speak,
ahead of caring for someone.
Well, you’ll notice
the Samaritan is very different.
In verses 33 and 34,
he’s traveling this road
and he’s moved with pity.
He approaches him, bandages the wounds,
pours oil and wine on them,
mounts the poor man on his own animal,
brings him to an inn,
and takes care of him,
evidently all that day.
The next day (in verse 35),
he takes out two denarii (two days’ wages),
gives them to the innkeeper and says:
“Take care of him,
and whatever you spend besides this,
I will repay you when I return.”
Two days’ wages
—evidently he spent everything that he had
because he was going to have to come back
to give the innkeeper more—
all for a man who was a Jew
who would likely under normal circumstances
not even greet him.
Well, Jesus then asked another question,
but this time Jesus
changes the man’s question,
not to “Who really is my neighbor?”,
but to “Who of these three
seems to you to have made himself neighbor
to the man who fell victim to the robbers?”
Isn’t that a better question?
It isn’t ‘Who is my neighbor?’
but ‘How can I make myself a neighbor?’
Well, the man gets the point,
and he answers correctly again.
He doesn’t say Samaritan.
Maybe he can’t go that far, but he says:
“The one who acted mercifully.”
Now Jesus says:
“Go and do the same yourself.”
And the account ends there
on a positive note.
Well, we learn a lot
—don’t we?—
about talking with people in our ministry
and even
in our day-to-day conversations at work
or with our brothers and sisters.
When others have a question,
never belittle the question, right?
Simply help them
to come to the right conclusion.
We never want to criticize someone
for a motive that may not be the best.
Just kindly respond.
Maybe a parable, an illustration,
will help them get the point.
Well, now, this isn’t the only time
Jesus had to deal with that question,
as I mentioned.
Let’s go to another occasion.
And this time we’re going to go
to Luke 18:18.
And here we find that this man
is not well-versed in the Law,
but he’s a ruler, and the Bible says
that he’s “very rich.”
And in another Gospel,
it also says that he’s young.
Rich and young and a ruler
—not always the best combination.
But notice here in verse 18,
the conversation starts with him
running up to Jesus on bended knee:
“Good Teacher, what must I do
to inherit everlasting life?”
Well, Jesus can’t let this one go.
You don’t want to call Jesus something
that should be only true of Jehovah,
that is, a title of being a Good Teacher.
So he gives him
a gentle correction there in verse 19.
And then in verse 20, Jesus, of course,
explains some of the Ten Commandments.
But the man in verse 21 says:
“All of these I have kept from youth on.”
In other words, ‘What else am I lacking?’
Well, after hearing this, Jesus acknowledges
there actually is something lacking.
In verse 22, one thing:
“Sell all the things you have
and distribute the proceeds to the poor,
“and you will have treasure in the heavens;
and come be my follower.”
Well, that’s almost too much for him to take.
In Mark’s account,
it tells us at this point
Jesus “felt love” for the man
because he clearly saw
that he was sincere.
But although
he was sincere in his question
he couldn’t do it, could he?
“When he heard this, he became
deeply grieved,
for he was very rich.”
Mark says that “he had many possessions.”
Well, we learned a few things
from this parable, didn’t we?
We learned that sometimes
people that have good motives
don’t always have good qualities.
In this case, he was simply
too attached to his things,
and that prevented him
from gaining one of the best privileges
he could have possibly had
in following Jesus.
So from these two accounts,
we learned some things.
First of all, we learned
that we can learn from a “Samaritan.”
Have you ever learned from a “Samaritan”?
I know I have.
One day many years ago, I was driving
down the road and I had a flat tire.
I had a spare tire,
but the tools I didn’t have.
So this is before the days of cell phones.
I walked up to the nearest house.
I said, “Can I use your phone, please,
to call a tow truck?”
And the man said, “Well, why?”
I said, “I need to change my tire.”
He said, “I’ll help you.”
He comes out of his house,
gets his tools,
and in no time changes my tire.
As he’s doing so, I’m thinking to myself,
‘He’s of another religion,
he’s of another culture,
another racial background,
and he’s changing my tire.’
As I’m driving away, I’m thinking,
‘Jehovah taught me something today
from a “Samaritan.”’
So, what do we learn?
It’s not such a bad idea
occasionally to ask this question, is it?
Two men were wise to do so.
Unfortunately, at least one of them
didn’t follow through.
But occasionally, if we say to Jehovah,
“Please, what do I need to do
to inherit everlasting life?”,
we can be sure that Jehovah
will answer that prayer,
maybe through personal study
or Bible reading,
or it might even be through a “Samaritan.”
Well, we thank you very much, Brother Smith,
for that warm and practical talk.
Let’s now give our attention
to Brother Paul Gillies,
who serves as a helper
to the Coordinators’ Committee,
who will discuss the theme “The Gift of God.”
Jehovah is the most generous Person
in the universe.
He is the Giver of “every good gift
and every perfect present.”
And no doubt you Gilead students
have thanked Jehovah many times
for the numerous spiritual gifts
that you have received
over the past five months.
I recall what one of you said
in your introduction,
“Gilead is an undeserved gift.”
What I would like to ask you now is,
“Have you experienced over these five months
“‘the gift of God’ that’s mentioned
at Ecclesiastes 3:12, 13?”
Let’s have a look at these verses together.
Ecclesiastes 3:12, 13:
“I have concluded
that there is nothing better for them
“than to rejoice
and to do good during their life,
“also that everyone should eat and drink
“and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.”
So this verse offers
a very simple formula for enjoying life
if we’re blessed with good health.
There is nothing better than to eat and drink
and find enjoyment for hard work.
Why is that?
Because it is “the gift of God.”
Now, as explained in verse 12,
the work which produces feelings
of enjoyment and satisfaction
is, you’ll note, “to do good,”
that is,
good deeds on behalf of others.
As Jesus said:
“There is more happiness in giving
than there is in receiving.”
Proverbs 8:30 also tells us
that as “a master worker,”
Jesus rejoiced,
or as the Hebrew word for rejoice implies,
he had a good time.
Yes, he had a good time
working with his Father
over billions of years,
creating the universe.
Now, we may be a long way
from being classed as a master worker,
but all can enjoy the satisfaction that comes
from doing good work in Jehovah’s service.
And don’t you find
that it’s this feeling itself
that is a gift from God?
Now, if you’ll turn with me
to Ecclesiastes chapter 5,
verses 18 and 19 expand on this thought.
Ecclesiastes 5:18, 19:
“This is what I have seen
to be good and proper:
“that one should eat and drink
“and find enjoyment for all the hard work
“at which he toils under the sun
“during the few days of life
that the true God has given him,
“for that is his reward.
“Also, when the true God gives a man
“riches and material possessions
“along with the ability to enjoy them,
“he should take his reward
“and rejoice in his hard work.
This is the gift of God.”
Now, in effect, the Bible writer
wisely recommends two things here:
(1) Work diligently from day to day
and (2) enjoy what you have right now.
Now, when we recognize
that our prosperity is a gift from God,
we get a lot of personal enjoyment
from what we possess.
And did you notice
that twice in these verses,
this “gift of God” is described
as a “reward” from Jehovah to us?
Isn’t that a beautiful thought
that Jehovah chooses to reward us
for our hard work?
And I’m sure you agree
that Gilead has added
an abundance of spiritual treasures
to your possessions.
In the coming years,
you will find enjoyment again and again
when you recall an explanation of a verse
that you discovered
during your personal study
or that you gleaned
from one of your instructors
during a class lesson.
Like travelers abroad,
you have collected priceless souvenirs.
Now, if you’re still
in Ecclesiastes chapter 5,
let’s have a look at verse 20
because this verse explains how
“the gift of God”
can affect our outlook on life.
It says: “For he will hardly notice
“[or as the footnote says, ‘remember,’
“he will hardly notice]
the passing days of his life,
“because the true God keeps him preoccupied
with the rejoicing of his heart.”
“Time flies” is a very common refrain
here at Bethel.
And isn’t that so true?
When we enjoy our work,
we hardly notice that our days, weeks, years,
even life itself seems to fly by.
Therefore, the advice is to savor the moment.
As one famous quote says,
“Yesterday is the past;
“tomorrow is the future;
“but today is a gift,
and that is why they call it the present.”
And there are benefits to being busy.
“The gift of God” can help us
to protect our mental well-being.
When we are preoccupied
with interesting work,
we don’t become unduly concerned
with the brevity of life
and its problems and uncertainties.
Rather, we get so much enjoyment
from doing good
—like Jesus having a good time—
that the negative aspects of life
tend not to dominate our thinking.
You see, we become joyful at heart.
So enjoy that feeling.
It is a gift from God.
Now, the past 20 weeks of schooling
was hard work, wasn’t it?
Your minds were stretched.
Yet, hasn’t time flown by
since you introduced yourselves to us
on November 6 of last year?
Well, now it’s time to relax
—to eat and drink
(in moderation, of course)
with your family and friends
as you reflect on your Gilead experience.
So now is the time
to savor the reward from Jehovah.
The same wise writer also suggested
a good balance between work and rest
when he wrote at Ecclesiastes 4:6:
“Better is a handful of rest
than two handfuls of hard work.”
Now think about that.
A workaholic has no time or energy left
to participate in restful activities
that are designed
to refresh and rejuvenate us.
So we have to be modest about work,
especially when we really love
our assignments.
The Bible encourages a balanced view.
Work hard and enjoy the rewards.
We may thoroughly enjoy our work,
but we must remember
that work is even more enjoyable
if we take time to relax
and reflect with pleasure on that work.
Now, since it’s likely that many of you
will receive new and enjoyable privileges,
which will increase your workload,
this is good and timely advice
from the Scriptures, is it not?
Now, may I invite you to turn
to 2 Timothy 1:6.
Because this verse conveys
another positive dimension
to the expression
“the gift of God”
as you look to future assignments.
It says:
“For this reason I remind you
to stir up like a fire
“the gift of God that is in you
through the laying of my hands on you.”
Now if you look at the study note,
it says this:
“The gift that Paul here mentions
“seems to involve a gift of holy spirit
“—the imparting to Timothy
of some special ability
that helped him to fulfill his assignment.”
Now, of course, Gilead students
do not have scholastic abilities
conferred upon them by God, do they?
One of you even said in your introduction,
“We’re just ordinary Bethelites
living extraordinary lives.”
Now, while that may be true,
nevertheless,
Gilead training has perhaps helped you
to discover and nurture hidden talents
that you never knew you had, true?
Your instructors may have noticed
if you didn’t.
All of us who enjoy service privileges
like Timothy
need to treasure our “gift of God.”
Service privileges are expressions
of Jehovah’s undeserved kindness,
not a reward for months of study.
In fact, all of our energies,
our abilities, our talents
may be viewed as gifts from Jehovah.
And they have the purpose
of doing good toward other people.
Now, if that’s our outlook
and that’s our motive,
we will thoroughly enjoy our assignments.
You notice too in this verse
that Paul reminded Timothy
“to stir up like a fire the gift of God”
that was in him.
No doubt you are fired up and you are ready
to work hard in your assignments.
But again, as explained in the study note,
“‘stirring up like a fire’
implies continuous action;
“one scholar suggests . . .
‘to keep the fire burning at full flame.’”
So we’re encouraged
to put our heart and energy
into our assignments.
Be fired up, but don’t burn out.
The fire will continue to burn at full flame
if we always remember
to balance work and rest.
So yes, the days of our life quickly pass.
It’s a fact of life now, but only for now.
In the new world,
we will enjoy work to the full.
The joy of living will get better and better,
especially when we’re in perfect health.
We will enjoy the pleasure also
of consuming unpolluted food and drink.
So enjoy life.
Enjoy life with your family and friends.
Enjoy all that you have now.
Enjoy your assignments.
Put your heart into them,
but be balanced.
The simple formula from Ecclesiastes
will carry on
for billions and billions of years,
even forever.
“Eat and drink and find enjoyment”
for all your hard work
because it is “the gift of God.”
Well, thank you very much, Brother Gillies.
We certainly view that talk
as a gift, or present.
We appreciated it.
Now Brother Edward Aljian,
who works in the Writing Department,
will present the next part entitled
“A Problem and a Solution.”
Well, you brothers and sisters
from the 155th class of Gilead
are not only about to graduate
but will soon be heading
toward your assignments,
which we know you’ll enjoy.
But life being what it is,
you know that problems occasionally arise.
And one problem
you might personally encounter
somewhere down the road
is difficulty understanding an adjustment
to an organizational
or theocratic arrangement.
It could be a change
in our preaching methods,
or in congregation operations,
or in branch procedures,
or something like that.
Now, normally we appreciate
these organizational refinements
in harmony with Isaiah 60:17.
And yet our publications
and even the Bible itself acknowledge
that at some point
any one of us might find it hard
to make that transition
from the way we had been doing something
to the way we’re now instructed to do it.
Now, why would we find it difficult?
Because it affects us personally?
It changes where we serve or what we do?
Maybe that.
Maybe not that.
Maybe it’s just that mentally
we’re finding it hard
to grasp the sense behind the change.
We’re loyal; we’re going to cooperate.
But our brain keeps saying:
‘Why are we going in this direction?
It seems to me we should be going
in that direction instead.’
Well, if we have been given new direction
and mentally
we’re strongly inclined otherwise,
then we have a problem,
but we also have a solution.
And that’s in Philippians chapter 3.
Can we go there?
Now, here Paul discusses a problem
that existed back there
in some congregations.
Now, was it a big problem in Philippi?
Apparently not.
But anticipating that it might be a problem
for some individuals there,
Paul addresses it right here
at Philippians 3:15, 16.
He says: “Therefore, let those of us
who are mature be of this mental attitude,
“and if you are mentally inclined otherwise
“in any respect,
“God will reveal the above attitude to you.
“At any rate,
to the extent we’ve made progress,
let us go on walking orderly
in this same course.”
What is Paul talking about?
A major organizational adjustment
—the shift from the Mosaic Law
to Christianity.
And Paul, for one, understood it.
He was not mentally inclined otherwise.
He left behind
his attachment to the Law;
any personal advantages
that it was bringing him,
maybe along the lines
of prominence, prestige among the Jews.
He left it all behind.
That was Paul.
But it took some Jewish Christians years
to grow to the point
where they could leave that Law behind
and fully adopt
all aspects of Christianity.
Why did it take them so long?
Now, it’s easy for us to say:
“Well they were stubborn.
They had a bad attitude.”
And some of them did.
There were some, for example,
who wanted to hold on to parts of the Law
just to avoid persecution.
So you had things like that going on.
But think also of this:
Prior to Christianity,
the Mosaic Law
was Jehovah’s arrangement for worship.
So there must have been
some Jewish worshippers
who before becoming Christian
were very loyal to the Mosaic Law.
And being of the loyal sort,
what do you think they did?
Just obey the Law?
No.
They’d have taken it further.
They’d have worked hard to cultivate
a strong appreciation for the Law
—a deep love
for the way different features of the Law
reflected Jehovah’s personality,
his ways, his thinking.
Perhaps some invested years
bringing their appreciation up
to that high level.
And now that they had,
the Law suddenly goes out of effect.
Now you can appreciate why
it might have been hard for some loyal ones
to process this change mentally.
Could something like that happen today?
Yes it could.
Maybe you’re taught years ago,
“This is how we preach,
and this is why,” right?
Or “This is how the congregation
handles certain situations, and this is why.”
Or “This is how we view
certain branch procedures,
and this is why it is the very best way.”
Now, being of the loyal sort,
what did you do?
You made it all your own
—not just the arrangement itself
but the reasoning behind the arrangement.
If somebody came along and challenged it,
you loyally defended it.
And maybe it took you years
to bring your appreciation up
to that high level,
but loyally you did.
And now that you did,
the arrangement changes
and maybe even
the reasoning behind the arrangement.
Well, like some of those
early Jewish Christians,
your very loyalty
to a previous theocratic arrangement
might make it hard to grasp immediately
the wisdom behind the new adjustment.
Well, like we said, that’s the problem.
What’s the solution?
What can we actually do about it?
Well, three things,
and all three are right there
in the verses we just read.
First, be patient.
What did Paul say there in verse 15?
“Therefore, let those of us
who are mature be of this mental attitude,
“and if you
are mentally inclined otherwise . . . ,
God will reveal the above attitude to you.”
So if you’ve made an earnest endeavor,
a prayerful endeavor,
to get the sense behind the change
and for now you just can’t,
set it aside.
Be patient because the day will come
(maybe sooner but maybe later),
when the pieces
finally fall into place for you
and you grasp the wisdom
behind the adjustment.
Now number two: Walk orderly.
What does that mean?
The study note for verse 16
explains that walking orderly
has to do with moving forward unitedly
as Christians.
So in the context
of what we’re talking about right now,
walking orderly means supporting
the new arrangement
without resisting,
without complaining,
because what does complaining
and resisting do?
It’s walking disorderly.
It’s promoting disunity.
So no, we walk orderly;
we support the arrangement.
Now, number three:
Stay busy in your theocratic routine,
because there in verse 16,
Paul encourages all of the Philippians
to keep making “progress.”
Now, the same is true of all of us.
Certainly, there are
many aspects of the truth
that we do appreciate, we do understand,
and we’re making progress.
Good.
Put your mind and heart there, right?
Rather than continuing to obsess
over something
that you just can’t understand for now,
stay busy in your assignment
and stay absorbed
in your weekly spiritual routine.
It brings immediate contentment.
Let’s review.
If we ever have a problem
understanding an adjustment
to a theocratic arrangement,
we also have a solution:
Philippians 3:15, 16.
Be patient, walk orderly,
and stay busy in our theocratic routine.
Now, I would like to conclude
by illustrating that last point
—the value of staying busy
in our theocratic routine
because it is the solution not just
to what we’re talking about right now
but it is the solution
to several situations in life.
Now, the illustration
is one that I heard several years ago
at a Gilead graduation program.
How about that?
One of your instructors told us
about the old steamboats
that used coal for fuel, right?
So upstairs you had the captain and the crew.
Downstairs you have these men
busy shoveling coal
into the ship’s boiler, right?
Now, imagine one of these workers
puts his shovel down
and he approaches a coworker and says:
“Hey, did I just detect the ship
starting to make a left turn?
“That does not seem right to me.
“It seems that at this point of the trip,
we should be moving straight forward,
“not changing direction.
“I wonder if the captain
really knows what he’s doing.
You know what? I’m going to go upstairs
and have a word with the captain.”
Now, at this point,
the speaker stopped describing the scene.
He just leaned forward
close to the microphone,
and he simply said, “Shovel the coal.”
Well, that’s you and me, right?
That’s you and me—we are shoveling the coal.
We’re busy doing the work
Jehovah assigned us to do.
That’s what we’re absorbed in.
We let Jehovah take care of Isaiah 60:17
—‘the copper, the gold, the silver.’
We take care of the coal
by staying absorbed and busy
in our theocratic routine.
And then as Jehovah
navigates his organization,
he’ll also navigate us
to the right attitude
to contentment
and to that most wonderful adjustment of all
—from this system to life in the new world.
Well, we thank you very much, Brother Aljian,
for that three-part solution
to a very realistic problem.
Now one of your instructors,
Brother Richard Chilton,
will talk about the subject entitled
“Have You Ever Been Fooled?”
Well, this day has finally arrived,
and you’ve made it.
And now for some of you,
it is a return trip home.
For others, you’re off to a new home.
But no matter where you’re going,
one thing is for sure,
and that is all of you
—all of you—
are about to begin
a new chapter in your life.
Now, while that realization
can spark feelings of excitement,
it can also spark a little anxiety as well.
Questions may be swirling in your mind:
‘Who really am I now?
‘Will I be able to fulfill
‘all that will be expected of me?
Can I really do this?’
If you find any of these feelings
bubbling up inside of you,
then remember this:
You are not alone.
Throughout time, faithful servants of God
have had those same feelings.
Let’s take a closer look at one of them
by turning to the Bible book
that bears his name, Jeremiah.
In Jeremiah chapter 1,
notice what he says beginning in verse 4.
He said: “The word of Jehovah
came to me, saying:
“‘Before I formed you in the womb I knew you,
“‘and before you were born I sanctified you.
I made you a prophet to the nations.’”
Now, was Jeremiah flattered
by the fact that Jehovah
saw such potential in him?
Quite the opposite.
Notice his response in verse 6:
“But I said: ‘Alas, O Sovereign Lord Jehovah!
I do not know how to speak,
for I am just a boy.’”
In other words, ‘I don’t think I’m qualified
for what you’re asking me to do.’
But notice what Jehovah does in verse 9:
“Then Jehovah stretched out his hand
“and touched my mouth.
“And Jehovah said to me:
‘I have put my words in your mouth.’”
Jehovah was reassuring Jeremiah:
‘Don’t worry.
I’ve got this and you.’
Well, the nervous prophet
accepted his assignment
and, admittedly, it was not always easy.
At times he met with fierce opposition.
He was mobbed, imprisoned,
left to die in the mud
at the bottom of an empty cistern.
Clearly, he went through a lot,
and at one point,
he even thought about quitting.
Notice what he says in chapter 20,
chapter 20, the middle of verse 8.
He said: “For me the word of Jehovah
“has been the cause
of insults and jeering all day long.
“So I said:
‘I am not going to make mention of him,
and I will speak no more in his name.’”
Like Jeremiah,
we too may have our moments
when we feel like giving up is the answer.
But let’s read on in the middle of verse 9:
“But in my heart
“it
[the message that he had been proclaiming]
“became like a burning fire
shut up in my bones,
“and I was tired of holding it in;
I could no longer endure it.”
Now, what happened here?
Despite the hardships,
clearly the boy
had become the bold prophet of Jehovah.
But my question to you is,
How did that happen?
Jeremiah himself tells us in verse 11.
He says: “Jehovah was with me
like a fearsome warrior.”
And with the fearsome Warrior at his side,
Jeremiah went from being unable to speak
to being unable to hold it in.
He experienced
a one-hundred-and-eighty-degree change,
and he knew exactly
who was responsible for it.
He tells us in our theme scripture text
for this talk
in the same chapter, chapter 20, verse 7.
He said: “You have fooled me,
“O Jehovah, and I was fooled.
You used your strength against me,
and you prevailed.”
Jehovah had fooled Jeremiah
in a positive way.
When Jeremiah reached
what he thought was his limit,
Jehovah proved stronger
than Jeremiah’s weaknesses
and empowered him to continue.
He was able to make the one-eighty
because he, first of all,
accepted the assignment.
Second, he trusted in Jehovah.
And third, he allowed time
for God’s spirit to work on him.
And if you think
Jeremiah was an isolated case, think again.
Moses did the one-eighty.
He went from a man “slow of speech”
to becoming a mighty leader
of an entire nation.
Jonah did the one-eighty.
He went from a man
running away from his assignment
in the opposite direction
to becoming a bold preacher to the Ninevites.
Peter did the one-eighty.
He went from denying the Christ three times
to becoming the rock
that Jesus always knew he could be.
So, what about you?
Have you ever been fooled by Jehovah?
I’d like to read to you a few words
that I recently received
from a Gilead graduate.
She said this:
“When we heard the news
that we were being assigned to a country
“that had its fair share
of poverty, instability, and sickness,
“I felt like saying to Jehovah:
“‘Are you sure
“‘you want to send me there?
“‘I don’t like bugs,
“and I’m scared of being sick.’
“When the date of our departure came,
“I still remember all the tears I shed
when saying goodbye to my home and friends.”
Well, she accepted their assignment.
Time went by.
Several years later, she and her husband
received a new assignment
to serve in a different country.
Notice what she says next:
“If I thought leaving the United States
was the hardest thing I would ever do,
“I was completely fooled
“because the sadness I felt
“when I had to leave those new friends
“was indescribable.
I had never cried so much in my life.”
She goes on to sum up
her experience this way.
She said: “Jehovah taught me a lesson
in the most loving way.
“Before Gilead, I was putting myself in a box
“—the what-I-can-do box.
“But I wasn’t thinking that the Person
“who knows best where I fit is Jehovah.
“It’s as if he said,
“‘You’re not only going to adapt
to your new assignment,
“‘you’re going to love it so much
“you will never want to leave.’
“And that’s exactly what happened.
“I came to truly love
the people in our assignment,
“and I can honestly say
that these past few years
“have been some of my happiest.
“Now I’m not so afraid of change
“as before.
“I just trust in Jehovah
—trusting in the process.”
Amazing, isn’t it?
She too made the one-eighty.
She had been fooled by Jehovah
just like Jeremiah.
And she came out stronger
and happier as a result.
Why did that happen?
Because when we are fooled by Jehovah,
three significant things happen.
First, we draw closer to him.
Second, we discover new joys
that perhaps we never saw coming.
And third, we open the door
to receiving additional training
from Jehovah.
In conclusion, just love the people.
Then they will love you.
Then you will love your assignment.
Be willing to walk
through the doors wherever they take you.
With the fearsome Warrior by your side,
you cannot fail.
Always welcome the chance
to be fooled by Jehovah
because it means
that you’re about to experience
something pretty magnificent.
And guess what?
It has been tailor-made just for you.
Well, we thank you too, Brother Chilton.
We really appreciated
how you highlighted aspects about Jeremiah
—a very real and human example for us.
And now we have one of your instructors
(another one), Brother Trent Lippold,
who will talk on the interesting subject
entitled “Oil to Machinery.”
He wrote about one quarter
of the Christian Greek Scriptures.
That’s almost as much as the apostle Paul.
His name is only mentioned three times,
and there are scarcely four words
that are used to describe him.
The physician Luke
is one of the most familiar names
of whom we know almost nothing about.
In a world of people
trying to look important,
Luke shows us what is important.
Let’s see what we can learn
from the physician Luke.
The first mention of him,
the first description of Luke,
is found in the book of Colossians
at chapter 4, verse 14.
And the apostle Paul describes him there
as “the beloved physician.”
Physician—we focused on that
when we considered the Gospel of Luke.
Luke uses medical terms as he writes,
but Luke was more than just a physician
by occupation.
Luke was a physician in spirit.
He had the heart of a physician,
the heart of a healer.
Let’s look at an example.
Turn with me, please,
to the book of Luke chapter 4
—Luke 4:38, 39.
Verse 38 says: “After leaving the synagogue,
he [that’s Jesus]
“entered into Simon’s home.
“Now Simon’s mother-in-law
was suffering with a high fever,
“and they asked him to help her.
“So he stood over her
and rebuked the fever, and it left her.
Instantly she got up
and began ministering to them.”
There we have a mention in verse 38
—Luke noted that she had “a high fever.”
But look a little closer.
What made an impression on Luke?
Was it just the high fever?
The verse says: “Simon’s mother-in-law
was suffering  with a high fever.”
Matthew didn’t say that.
Mark didn’t say that.
Luke noticed.
Look at another example at Luke 22:44,
Luke 22:44.
The account is in the garden of Gethsemane,
and Jesus was there praying.
But notice what Luke wrote,
what caught his attention in verse 44:
“But he was in such agony
that he kept praying more earnestly;
“and his sweat became as drops of blood
falling to the ground.”
The physician Luke noticed the condition
—that “his sweat became as drops of blood.”
But look again.
It says that “he was in such agony
that . . . his sweat
became as drops of blood.”
Jesus’ condition, his agony,
is what caught Luke’s attention,
not just the physical condition,
the medical condition.
You see, Luke records Jesus
as someone who saw men as they were.
He saw men without distinction.
He saw men, and he loved them all.
Luke shows Jesus as someone
whose heart goes out to everyone
for whom life is an unequal struggle.
That made an impression on Luke.
Think of Luke’s Gospel—the things
that are uniquely recorded in Luke.
It’s only Luke who tells us
about the aged Elizabeth and Zechariah.
Luke tells us about Anna and Simeon.
Luke tells us about the widow of Nain,
the woman bent over for 18 years,
the woman who anointed
the feet of Jesus with her tears,
the Samaritan leper,
the rich tax collector Zacchaeus,
the condemned thief who hung beside Jesus.
Jesus’ attitude toward these people
appealed to Luke.
And Luke shared Jesus’ view.
For Luke, too, men of all sorts
are in the embrace of God’s mercy.
And this attitude of heart and mind
made Luke beloved,
“the beloved physician.”
And no doubt that spirit reduced the friction
among those who were traveling with Paul
and preaching in the first century.
Now, the second description of Luke
is found at Philemon 24.
And there Luke is described
as a ‘fellow worker.’
Open with me to the book of Acts,
Acts chapter 16.
And we’ll read beginning in verse 8
—Acts 16:8.
It says: “So they
“[this is Paul, Timothy, Silas,
and his traveling companions]
passed by Mysia and came down to Troas.”
And that’s where Paul had the vision,
and he was told
to “step over into Macedonia.”
And look at verse 10:
“As soon as he [that’s Paul]
had seen the vision,
we tried to go into Macedonia.”
Verse 11 says:
“So we put out to sea from Troas.”
Here’s our introduction to Luke.
Luke never praises himself.
He never writes about himself.
We only trace Luke’s travels with Paul
by the change of a pronoun
from “they” to “we.”
Now, this was on the second missionary tour,
on which Luke joined Paul here at Troas.
And he traveled on to Philippi with him.
And look at what made Luke a fellow worker;
look at what we can learn from him.
This is in verse 13,
when they arrived in Philippi.
Verse 13 says: “On the Sabbath day
“we went outside the gate beside a river,
“where we thought
there was a place of prayer,
and we sat down and began speaking
to the women who had assembled.”
And this now is the account of Lydia,
where Lydia embraces the truth,
the Kingdom message.
But did you notice
it said “we  went outside”?
Luke went with them.
It said
“we  thought there was a place of prayer.”
Luke was involved in the thinking process,
in the discussion,
in the decision about where to go,
and Luke was involved in speaking to them.
Luke was a participant
—not simply along for the ride,
not a fellow traveler, not just a chronicler.
Luke was a fellow worker.
And there’s a beautiful lesson
for us and for you:
Be a participant.
Be an example.
Get involved in the assignments
you are given.
Now, it may be that Luke stayed
in Philippi from 50 to 56 C.E.
We don’t know,
but perhaps he did because he joined Paul
again in 56 C.E.
on the third missionary tour from Philippi.
What did he do in Philippi?
We don’t really know.
Typically, it’s quiet about Luke,
but we can assume he must have just been
a busy fellow worker there in Philippi
—no sparks flying, just a busy fellow worker.
He joined Paul again in 56 C.E.
From Philippi,
he traveled with him to Jerusalem.
He was in Jerusalem
for the trouble in the temple.
He traveled with him to Caesarea,
where Paul was a prisoner,
and continued on with Paul to Rome,
where Paul was a prisoner.
Luke, however, was not a prisoner,
but he accompanied Paul.
How comforting that must have been for Paul
to have his fellow worker with him!
When you think about Paul
and his countless beatings,
the scourging, the stoning, the shipwrecks,
they must have
all taken a toll on him physically,
not to mention the “thorn in the flesh”
he had to deal with.
One of his traveling companions was Timothy,
with “frequent cases of sickness.”
How relieved they must have been to have Luke
the physician with them!
So Luke is an example
of long-continued devotion
to the Kingdom work
and of unshaken constancy
to Paul and his associates.
And, in fact,
this warm feeling of a fellow worker
(Luke being a fellow worker)
is perhaps best summed up
in the final mention of Luke,
and that’s at 2 Timothy 4:11.
Among Paul’s final words, he says:
“Luke alone is with me.”
Of all his fellow workers, perhaps
there were none dearer
or few dearer than Luke.
You see, Luke’s writing contained
the least possible mention of himself.
Yet, we do not doubt
that he was eminently useful
to Paul and to all those around him.
To be sure, he enabled Paul to do much more
than would have otherwise
been possible for him.
He kept himself out of sight.
In his Gospel, it is Christ who shines.
In the book of Acts,
it’s the Kingdom preaching work that shines.
And I wonder if the silence in the Scriptures
in direct reference to Luke is intentional.
It certainly teaches us something.
Few other so prominent servants
have so little mention.
And therein lies the lesson
from the life of Luke:
Be an example of a servant
who with lowliness of mind
finds your service in serving others.
There was already one Paul.
Luke stays in the background.
With the spirit of a true servant,
he did not need the light of publicity
to stimulate him.
He was not the machine; he was the oil.
Finally,
if the only three words
used to describe you
are “beloved fellow worker,”
your training here at Gilead
will have been a success.
And you, like Luke, will be oil to machinery.
Well, we thank you very,
very much, Brother Lippold.
We appreciated how you highlighted
the example of Luke
and how you applied
that interesting theme
to his example
—“Oil to Machinery.”
Such thought-provoking and encouraging talks!
We hope you enjoyed Part 1.
Be on the lookout for Parts 2 and 3,
which will be available
on jw.org later this month.
Our program would not be complete
without visiting our brothers and sisters
in another beautiful country.
This month, we visit Haiti,
which means “Land of Mountains.”
Haiti is a tropical island
located in the Caribbean Sea
and has beautiful white sand beaches,
rivers, waterfalls
and, yes, majestic mountains.
Haiti’s culture and language
are unique in character.
Many speak French, but the mother tongue
of most people is Haitian Creole
—an expressive language
that combines French words
with West African grammar.
The population reflects
a colorful blend of African
and European traits and cultures.
Haitians love to dance,
sing, laugh and, of course,
they enjoy tasty foods such as tonmtonm.
Tonmtonm  is breadfruit mashed very fine
and often eaten with an okra sauce.
Haiti has a rich theocratic history.
Records don’t show exactly
when the good news first reached Haiti.
But as early as February 1887,
Zion’s Watch Tower  listed Haiti
among the places from where people
sent in letters of interest
about the good news.
The first Watch Tower missionaries
arrived in Haiti in 1945.
One of them was Roland Fredette,
who later became the first branch overseer.
Hardworking and adventurous
missionary sisters,
such as Gloria Hill, Naomi Adams,
Helen D’Amico, and Frances Bailey,
made valuable contributions
to the preaching activity in the 1950’s.
The Haitian people
show a keen interest in the Word of God.
Today there are
over 17,000 active publishers.
These zealous and happy publishers
preach in Haitian Creole,
American Sign Language, or Spanish.
And thanks to the availability
of braille publications in Haitian Creole,
those who are blind
are also learning the truth.
This mountainous country
does not intimidate
our loyal preachers of the good news.
During the summer season,
brothers and sisters of all ages
head into seldom-worked territories.
And although Haiti
has faced economic challenges
and suffered recent natural disasters,
our brothers and sisters are positive
and focus their attention
on encouraging others
to look to the future without fear.
The city of Cap-Haïtien
is in the northern part of the island,
and that is where you’ll find
the 113 publishers
of the Morne-Rouge Congregation.
They would like to send you their greetings.
They want you all to know
that they love you very much.
And we say in Haitian Creole:
“Nou renmen nou tou,”
which means “We love you too.”
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!